So now that we have got a bit of understanding of how we came all the way from the model without having
tool support and the model with having the bounded tool support, and also how we bounded the LM with
a custom tools and how it actually calls those tools.
But now we are going to see this logic.
This is very important.
This is something which we have to write a bit of code there.
So you will notice that while the user asks the question like what is the sum of two and four?
And this particular request goes to like a chain with a prompt template.
And then we pass it to the model.
And the model has got the tool binding for the addition, uh, custom tools, subtraction custom tools
and Wikipedia custom tool, or maybe the custom built tool.
And you will notice that because you are going to be asking two and four.
Now there is going to be a tool calling happen.
So there is this tool calling happens over here where this tool calling will now have should have a
logic because we have seen until the tool calling because the Q1 model was actually rightly selecting
the adhesion custom tool for this particular question.
But now we need to write a logic over here to say you need to select this particular custom tool and
also execute this particular custom tool for me and give me the response back like sum of two and four
is six.
This is something we have to do right now.
So we have seen that the tool calling is happening and it is selecting the tools for us, the right
tool for us.
Based on the three boundary tool it has got four boundary tool it has got.
But we haven't seen how the execution of this particular tool really happens.
And for in order to see how this execution really happens.
We need to write a bit of code, and for that, we also need to ensure that we write a bit of a prompt
here.
In such a way, we need to create a prompt template in such a way that this model can really understand.
So what I really mean about that is that we are going to create a prompt message for the human message
in such a way that it is going to have the query from the user, and also it is going to have the AI
message which the AI is going to be giving for us, and also going to have a tool execution logic message
so that the LLM can go and execute the tool or invoke the specific tool for us and get the response
out from that tool.
So we need to have all these three logics or all these three information in a single prompt, which
the model can execute for us.
And that is what we are going to do in this particular lecture.
So let's see how we can actually achieve all of these.
So I'm going to go here.
I'm going to mark down here.
And I'm going to say execute the custom tools uh from LM.
And I'm going to take over here the code.
And I'm going to start writing the code over here.
So uh, I'm going to probably just create, uh, like a, uh, human message.
I'm going to say, uh, from, uh, lang chain core dot messages, import human message.
And over here I'm just going to say message is equal to human message, uh, which is probably going
to be in an array, because I'm going to do quite a lot of appending right now.
And I need to pass the, uh, the question over here.
So probably I'm going to say, uh, query Is equal to.
Or did Donald Trump win the 2024 presidential election?
We know that surely our model has got no idea about this particular query that we are going to be asking.
So now I wanted to see if our, uh, a large language model with the tools that we have got can actually
answer that particular question.
So I'm going to just say, uh, an I message.
So I'm going to say this is the I message I'm going to get, uh, and I'm going to call our LLM with
tools, uh Dot invoke.
And over here I'm going to ask that query.
I'm just going to pass that query over here.
And we will see if the LLM can choose the right tool for us.
Of course it does it.
Right.
So if I want to print the I message Dart our tool calls.
And if I try to run this, you will notice that we are going to see that this is going to call or invoke
the correct tool, Wikipedia, which is amazing.
I wanted to append this AI message as well inside this particular messages, so that I'm just creating
a prompt template right now with all the information which the LLM requires at the end to give me the
right answer.
So I'm going to say message dot append.
And I'm going to add the AI message as well.
So this is going to be my AI message which I wanted to append uh, for this particular uh, for, for
this particular query.
And now what I'm going to do is I need to execute the actual tool that it is going to select, but all
the tools are actually sitting inside my AI message, which I'm going to be getting.
Right.
So let me just let me also show you the message before I actually come go further.
So if I show you the message over here, look at that.
The the human message has got this particular content.
And there is this AI message which I just appended over here.
Look at that.
This human message and AI message.
The last message I need is the tool message, which is the tool which I'm going to be executing.
This is what I'm trying to build over here.
But all these information like the AI messages, like which tool that it is going to choose, is coming
from this AI message underscore, uh, AI message dot.
The tool calls.
Right.
So I'm going to be essentially choosing which tool that I need to select and then execute.
So for doing that I'm going to write a small for loop over here.
Uh so I'm going to say tool call in AI underscore message dot tool calls.
This is the for loop which I'm writing over here.
And I'm going to say the tool name is going to be a tool call that is going to be in this particular
variable.
And I'm going to get the name.
See that because you know that the tool uh, over here, the tool call if you just go here will have
a name as a variable.
So this gives me the name of the tool.
Uh, and I'm just going to make it lower just in case, because maybe if the tool comes in capital letter
from the, uh, LM, it could be a problem.
So that's that's why I'm just for the sake of making it work.
I'm just making it.
I'm going to do that, and I'm going to do a method called as execute tool.
So which tool I'm going to be executing.
You remember the list of tools that we created on the top over here, which is going to give me all
the tools with its name over here.
That's what I'm going to be getting up as well.
So I'm gonna get the list of the tools and I'm going to pass the tool name over here.
So that's going to give me the tool which is already mapped inside my list of tools because it is marked
with the name over here.
So name colon and then the tool.
So if I pass the tool name as a key then the value is going to be the tool itself like the actual tool
itself.
And now I can invoke that particular tool from the execute tool method.
Isn't it because we can because this is a runnable type.
So I can now invoke this tool.
So I'm going to say tool invoke is equal to execute tool dot I can just call the invoke method.
And I can invoke the tool with all the related details which is passed from the tool calls for me and
that is the last thing I needed.
And this one as well.
I can append it in the message over here.
And now if I try to print the message, you will notice that I will not only have the human and the
AI message like how I had before, I will now also have the tool calls as well.
Like the tools message as well over here.
Look at that.
So this is also going to be coming for me along with it.
But actually instead of the tool calls which I have wrongly mapped over here, I need to I need to map
the tool invoke because that is what I really need.
I wanted to see like an AI message instead of the actual tool call itself.
So I'm going to, uh, append the tool invoke message.
Oh, look at that.
Because I'm doing it for the second time.
It's just, uh, making things messy here.
Uh, probably.
I need to now set.
I need to just clear this message.
So now it is actually correct.
So we have the human message and the AI message.
And I also need the tool message to be added.
So now if I run this code over here, you should see the AI message, human message and the tool message.
So we have three messages which is required for our AI to really execute things.
Look at that.
It's already this.
This thing is being executed.
Uh, because we did the invoke method.
See that?
Uh, the content of the Wikipedia is already coming up over here.
So list of Donald Trump 2024 presidential election endorsement Summary A range of notable individuals,
groups, organizations endorse Donald Trump for 24 US presidential election and 24 presidential election.
The summary is blah, blah blah, and it has got all the details that is needed for the LLM to get the
context to give me the answer that I'm going to be asking further.
That is what or that is how you can actually create this particular message, which is required for
the LLM to execute.
In our next lecture, we will see how we can execute this whole entire message along with LLM so that
it gives me the response back.